---
toc: true
layout: post
description: CTE classroom blog and questions.
categories: [Markdown]
title: CTE
---

# Notes

## Software and System Developement Pathway
- This CTE pathway prepares students for computer science related futures such as design, development, implementation, maintenance, and management of systems.
    - Generally used to meet the needs of modern businesses.
    - Critical for medical records, ecommerce, inventory, and digital entertainment 

## Possible Occupations
- Computer Programmer
- Software Developer/Applications
- Information Security Analyst
- Web Developer
- E-Business/E-Commerce Specialist

## Key Ideas/Standards
- Identify and apply the systems development process.
- Define and analyze systems and software requirements.
- Create effective interfaces between humans and technology.
- Develop software using programming languages.
- Test, debug, and improve software development work.
- Integrate a variety of media into development projects.
- Develop Web and online projects.
- Develop databases.
- Develop software for a variety of devices, including robotics.
- Develop intelligent computing.

# Hacks 
- We have done most of the standards so far this year, I think the only ones we havent done yet are developing databases, device software, or intelligent computing.
- I am looking forward to learning how to develop intelligent computing, because I have always been curious of how programs such as artificial intelligence are coded.
- This computer science CTE pathway will give us backround knowlesge in computers that would benefit us in many fields such as engineering.