---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Project Blog
categories: [markdown, week2]
title: Project Blog

---


# Project Blog 
We must adhere to all of the project's requirements if we are to pass the College Board performance assignments. The project must be appropriate and demonstrate our programming abilities in a way that uses a write-up and video demonstration to show our program's purpose and functionality, how we manage complexity, algorithms and procedures we develop and use in our program, the testing of our program, and many other specific descriptions that can demonstrate to the grader that we are knowledgeable about both our project and the programming techniques taught in the AP CSP curricula.

We've been working on creating a news website for our Create Performance Task (group) that offers users up-to-date news updates with many cool, new features that current news sites don't currently offer, like cutting-edge sports predictors, trackers, and analytics, places for YOU to update your own breaking news events and even local news that you'd like to make the public more aware of, and the most secure algorithms implemented to keep user data safe.

I'll probably use the account login/sign up page that I have been handling or the Global Updates page for myself (mainly). I must make sure that I am meeting every single criteria on each of the scoring sections on the CPT rubric, and I believe that I am moving in the right direction in that regard. The program's function and purpose have already been decided upon by me, and they will be explicitly outlined in my write-up and movie. In addition, I will be able to test it, and after developing the login and signup pages and after it is completely working, I will be able to go into greater detail to describe the methods used, how complexity was controlled using lists, and other things.

I'll demonstrate how a user registers, sets up an account, customizes it, and modifies their preferences—like the status of their newsletter subscription or notification—in the account page of their account. I might even demonstrate how they modify their usernames and passwords—in the video.
