---
toc: false
layout: post
description: Big Idea 5.5 and 5.6 
categories: [Big Idea 5.5 and 5.6]
title: Big Idea 5.5 and 5.6 
---

## 5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns


##### When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.

1. MIT License
- The software may be used, copied, modified, and distributed with permission.
- The software has few limitations and can be used for both business and non-commercial enterprises.
- Ensures that the original copyright and license information are included and permits anybody to use, alter, and distribute the licensed software for any reason, including commercial use.

2. GPL License
- Software users are free to use, alter, and distribute the software for any reason. 
- They can also choose to charge a fee or give it out for free.
- Anyone who obtains a copy of the software must have access to the source code.

#### In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.

- The conditions under which software can be used, updated, and distributed are outlined in its license.
- When thinking about ethical issues, digital rights like privacy and intellectual property rights are crucial. For instance, licensing can stop music from being copied illegally so that creators can claim credit for their work.
- For software developers, this is crucial since it enables creators to maintain control over their work and defend their legal rights against data theft.
- Digital rights, software licenses, and legal and ethical issues are all intricately intertwined and have an impact on how software is developed, distributed, and used.

##### Make a license for your personal

- The use of the program is more flexible under an MIT License. The GPL license mandates that derivative works be granted the same license as the software's original version. For more freedom, we choose the MIT license. Code can be more easily distributed, which may be advantageous to other users.
- This is our project [License File](https://github.com/vardaansinha/stg/blob/gh-pages/LICENSE.md)
- This is my personal  [License File](https://github.com/NavanYatavelli/fastpages/blob/master/LICENSE)

#### Pair Disussion Questions

##### Does the owner of the computer think this was intentional?

No, they do not think that this was intentional

##### If yes or no, justify your conclusion.

Although he believes it was unintentional, he also believes it to be incorrect and that it has to be corrected.

##### How do you think this happened?

I think that the programming and testing were done on or for white folks. Most likely, it wasn't tested on or programmed for black folks.

##### Is this harmful? Was it intended to be harmful or exclude?

This is detrimental, no doubt. It could alter how young Black Americans regard themselves and damage their self-esteem. But I think this was an oversight and wasn't meant to exclude.

##### Should it be corrected?

Yes, it has to be changed. A consumer has a right to anticipate that all functionalities of a computer they purchase will function.

##### What would you or should you do to produce a better outcome?

I believe we should test the algorithm on individuals of all various races in order to obtain a better result. In order to improve the product, we might also need user feedback and thoughts regarding the result.

### Big Idea 5.4 - Crowdsourcing

#### Obtaining Data via Crowdsourcing

We have all experienced Crowdsourcing by using external data through API’s, namely RapidAPI. This data has influenced how we code and shown possibilities in obtaining and analyzing data. Discuss APIs you have used.

Some of the APIs that I have used was the google maps API. This API let me be able to set markers/ locations on a useable google maps screen that I was able to implement into my groups website.

We have all participated in code Crowdsourcing by using GitHub. Many of you have forked from the Teacher repository, or exchanged code with fellow students. Not only can we analyze GitHub code, but we can obtain profiles and history about the persons coding history. What is the biggest discovery you have found in GitHub?

The biggest discovery and most interesting part of GitHub was the fact that you were able to see when and how many times you pushed/ updated code through GitHub. The site was able to record and save that data for later viewing.

Kaggle datasets for code and science exploration. The avenue of data points us youtube or netflix channels. Analyzing crowd data helps us make decisions. Exam top 10 to 20. Did you see anything interesting?

I noticed a data set on the mental health of medical students on Kaggle. This intrigued me since it's important to discuss about medical students' mental health, which is rarely done. It could aid young people in deciding if they want to sacrifice their mental health to attend medical school.

#### Hacks

##### CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?

We could develop a platform for coding homework assistance given the high number of computer science students we have. When we are stuck on a particular assignment, we may ask others to email us the relevant sections of their functioning code, post it on the platform, and provide an explanation of the code. We would have the ability to query and be questioned.

##### What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?

Yes, our project would be much better. This is because we would be able to use our news website in order to reach more people with more diverse needs and wants. We could send people who only care about sports our sports section, or the people who only care about the latest news the newest section.

##### What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.

During Night at the Mueseum, we can ask all of the people that are there at the school what their most favorite/ interesting news segment in. Whether that be sports, breaking news, or whatever else. Then later we will be able to push more of the news that the majority of the people want to see towards the home page, so that it is easier to access and read.
